Hey there. So let's say you implemented your Databricks code,
you store it in a GitHub repository,
and now you would like to deploy it to
Azure Databricks in a secure way without using
your personal accounts or any passwords or secrets.
In this episode, I will show you how to do this
securely using federated credentials defined in Azure Databricks.
So let's get started.
Alright, so let me show you the scenario. So basically we have a GitHub repository with our code and I have a target Databricks workspace to which I would like to deploy stuff.
So basically my goal is as follows. I want to grab code from the GitHub repository and deploy it to Databricks. And you might say, all right, but we've been doing this already using a service principle defined in Entra with some secret. And it worked, right? So why should we bother with a different approach?
And the reason is, yes, this approach works, but it has two big issues.
So first of all, a secret, a password is used.
That might leak and someone might use it in a malicious way to mess around with your environment.
Which is a risk, right?
The second thing is that those secrets, they have expiration period.
And they have to be rotated periodically.
and then update it in your deployment pipeline.
And very often people forget to do so,
which results in your deployment to start failing.
And that's why we want to use a different method.
We want to skip using those passwords entirely.
And at the same time, we want it to be secure.
And that's where federated credentials will be very useful.
So what I will do in this episode will be to create a new service principle inside Azure Databricks, now in Entra, in Databricks, and then I will use it during the deployment phase.
But now, how to make GitHub to be able to use this service principle? Well, that's where we'll create a federation policy object tied with a service principle.
that will define it it will allow github to use this particular service
principle but only from my github repository and only when using specific
github environment like dev and prod and in this scenario tokens will be
exchange between github and Databricks and it will work without providing any
secrets or any passwords explicitly. So let me show you that in action. So I have
a github repository, very simple one, this federated identity Databricks. It
It contains a very simple code that I cloned to my local machine.
And basically what I have here is a job definition,
Databricks job, this hello world one,
that contains only a single Python step
that runs this hello py script
that in turn prints hello world statement.
And I configured a very simple Databricks as in bundle
use to deploy this job to a target environment.
A very simple scenario.
Now, in my GitHub repository,
I don't have any actions defined yet
to deploy my stuff to Databricks.
So let's start with doing this.
And to avoid creating everything from scratch,
let me use this very simple template.
So let me find it.
It's called simple workflow. In our case it is fine. We'll adjust it in a second. Let's give it a name and let's verify what it does. So basically it triggers on a post to main branch, pull request to main and it can be run manually. That's fine.
Then it runs on some Linux machine it gets the repo and it prints some hello world statements which we don need actually So let me remove this oh or let me remove all of this and that it and let commit those changes and please know that i doing this directly on the main branch
you shouldn't do this in action in real life but for demo proposals this is fine
and because I made a commit it already resulted in my github action being triggered and actually
it went fine it is green it didn't do anything yet with my database code but at least we can see that
the trigger works so let's jump to vs code let me pull those changes and let's update the workflow
definition. And now we know that to deploy Databricks as in bundles we have to first
of all install Databricks CLI and then run this Databricks bundle validate and
Databricks bundle deploy commands. So let's add them to our workflow definition.
So let me just copy them
and paste it.
Alright, so here it is.
Install Databricks CLI,
check who is logged into Databricks to Databricks CLI
and then validate and deploy my Databricks asset bundle.
So let me commit this to the repository
like added Databricks steps
and let's push it.
that should trigger the pipeline, deployment pipeline,
that is running.
And actually at this moment, it should fail, right?
Because we didn't specify any authentication yet.
So it would be very bad if anyone could just deploy
and define a deployment workflow to connect
and to deploy stuff to my database environment.
So we expect this to fail.
And it did, it failed.
With error that default authentication,
I cannot configure default credentials, blah, blah, blah.
Basically, it means that we are not authenticated.
So let's fix this.
So following our design, we would like to make it secure.
So first of all, in my GitHub environment,
in my repository, I will create two environments,
dev and prot.
And that's basically what you do in your projects
because you might use different variables,
different secrets per environment,
or you might have a different protection rules
per environment.
And we'll use those environments
in our federation policy in a second.
So let me define those environments
like dev and prot.
I will not configure them in any way
because that's not necessary at this point.
We just need them to exist.
So we have dev and prot, and I will be using dev1.
The next step is to create our service principal
in Azure Databricks, not in Entra, in Azure Databricks.
This scenario focuses on doing everything inside Databricks.
And by the way, that's my Databricks workspace.
And we can see that at this moment,
there are no jobs deployed yet.
I mean, I have some leftovers from previous demos,
but we don't have this hello world job.
So to add a new service principal,
I will switch to Databricks account console.
this view that is available only to Databricks account admins, so it requires high privileges.
Then in user management, I will just create a new service principal and let's call it
Databricks managed service principal dev as follows.
And yes, please create this.
Alright, so we have a service principal, an identity in context of which our deployment will be executed.
But we don't have this federation policy yet.
This thing that allows GitHub to use this credential.
And to make it work, we've got to create it, right?
So let's jump into credentials and secrets tab.
And let create a new policy for this service principal We got to select provider that will use this policy And in our case it is GitHub Actions
because we want to use this service principle
from GitHub Actions.
Then we've got to provide a name of our GitHub organization.
In my case, it is Table on Azure.
You can see this in a URL to your repo.
So let me copy this.
Then we've got to provide a repository that will be allowed to use our service principal.
And in my case, it is federated identity Databricks.
Again, from URL.
So let me paste this.
Then we've got a choice that allows us to narrow down scenarios in which this policy and the service principle can be used.
I want to use environments. That's why we defined them previously.
and basically I want to define that this service principle will be allowed to be used only from
this repository on from this organization and only when deploying stuff to github dev environment
that's what we are configuring here and the rest of the stuff is fine and let me create the policy
and that's it
the next thing to do is to basically create this service principle
in my Databricks workspace
so let's jump back to my workspace
and here in the settings
in identity and access, service principles
I don't have my service principle available in this workspace yet
so let me add it
that's the name of my service principal
and yes please add it. So what I did right now
was to make this Databricks managed
dev service principal available
in my target Databricks workspace
right and that's it. So we have
everything configured on the Databricks
site. The next thing is that we have got to modify our workflow. We've got to instruct
GitHub that hey please use this federated identity, those federated credentials to authenticate.
And basically we've got to make two changes. So first of all we've got to add some permissions
to the workflow.
to be able to exchange some tokens with Databricks.
That's required.
So that's one thing.
And secondly, we've got to indicate some variables
that will be used by the workflow as follows.
So first of all, please use dev GitHub environment,
this configuration, why?
Because we know that our Federation policy
we've just defined, it applies only
when using this dev environment.
Secondly, we defined this GitHub open ID connect
as authentication type.
It tells GitHub, hey, use this federated identity stuff.
I indicated where is my Databricks host located
and we've got to provide client ID of the service principle
that will be used for the login proposals and we can get this from here that's the application id
so let me copy this let me paste it here and that should be fine so let me
push this to the repo add that open id connect stuff and hopefully everything will work
so let's jump back to our github repository to actions and let's see if this time deployment
will pass and you can see that we already passed the step that previously failed right
and actually let's see who is locked and oh please we can see that display name
is set to our service principle that we defined in Databricks So GitHub action uses this service principle credentials
to connect to Databricks.
So everything looks fine, right?
Then we were able to deploy,
to validate our Databricks as a bundle
and deploy it, right?
Everything went fine.
our our action faces green checkbox so let's verify this let's jump to other database workspace
let's see jobs and pipelines and yes we've got this hello world pipeline that was deployed and
created by using this databricks managed service principal and let me run it to verify that
everything works and inside we can see that that yes um the creator and the runner's identity is the
um principle that we created in databricks and when it comes to tasks it has this very simple
single um python script task right so everything looks fine and about execution
it was executed and it printed hello world statement so everything works fine
one thing to check all right it works and please know that i didn't specify any secret
anywhere right no password this thing that might look like some secret stuff it is just an
identifier of my service principal so it is not a secret.
You can safely push this to the repository.
And let's say
what will happen if we try to use the same
service principal but on a production environment.
And let's see
if it will work. Changed mf2-prot.
This is to verify if our federation policy indeed restricts the usage of the service principal to the dev environment only.
And let's verify this in actions. Hopefully it will fail. And yes, it failed.
it failed because invalid grant is defined right basically and the stuff
that we configured in GitHub action it doesn't match the stuff we configured in
our Federation policy which simply means that it is not possible to overuse those
permissions right just to copy this workflow definition and use it in a other repository
it will fail as well right because the federation policy limits the users of the service principle
to this repository only the same if we change the environment to prod right so basically
by using this federated credentials what we achieved so first of all no secrets no passwords
nothing is stored there is nothing we have to rotate periodically it simply works it is clean
it is elegant it is secure secondly those permissions are narrowed down to be used only
from my repository and only when deploying to dev environment so it is not possible just to grab
the code copy it and use it in another place just hoping that i would get access to
to my environment no it's empty words please be aware that in this scenario
we used a service principle defined in azure databricks so our github workflow
will be able to access only Databricks.
It will not be able to go outside,
like to deploy anything to Azure Data Factory,
some logic app, or whatever you want, right?
This scenario, it focuses only on doing stuff
inside Databricks.
If you would like to use a more enterprise version
in which you still use federated stuff,
but you can deploy more things than .databricks,
then check out another video inside,
which I talk about how to do this
using Entra Managed Service Principle.
And basically that's it for today.
Thanks for watching and see you next time.
Take care.
